What was to do or to make?
Aser.
We said that for the informal positive command we have a shortcut.
We find the U version of the verb, Asis.
and we take away the yes.
Asi.
But with ASER we have an irregularity.
The informal command from ASER is as
H A Z.
So in most of Spain you will hear as.
As.
So if you want to say do it
Aslo.
Good.
Another use of the mood tense is to turn words like where into wherever.
What was where
Donde.
So of course we can't use the mood tense with donde because it's not a verb.
How would you say where you want?
Where you want speaking informally
Donde quieres.
Good.
Now if we want to say wherever you want, then to get wherever, actually we can change the verb.
to the mood tense and that changes the feeling of where and then where turns into wherever.
So if you want to say wherever you want, still informally
Donte chieras.
I want to hear where load I and the e in chieras.
Good.
Donde chieras.
So do it wherever you want.
Aslo Donde quieras.
Good.
Aslo donde quieras.
What was you like it?
Still informally you like it.
Te gusta.
How would you say do it how you like to do it?
So do it how you like.
What was the word for how?
How are you called?
What's your name?
Como.
Good.
So do it how it pleases you.
Do it how you like.
Aslo
Como te gusta.
Good.
Aslo como te gusta.
Do it how you like to.
Do it how you like to do it.
Now what if you wanted to give the meaning?
Do it however you like.
Hazlo como te guste.
In English we are changing how to however and in Spanish we are changing te gusta to te guste.
How would you say do what you prefer?
Do what you prefer.
Still informal.
As lo que preferes.
And prefieres.
Very good.
As lo que prefieres.
So what we are investigating here is an optional use of the mood tense.
No, because haz lo que prefieres is perfect Spanish.
It just means do what you prefer.
But if you want to give the meaning do whatever you prefer, how will you change that?
Good.
Us lo que prefieras.
Do whatever you prefer.
Eat whatever you prefer.
Eat whatever you prefer, speaking informally
Comes lo que prefieras.
Comes lo que prefieras would be you eat whatever you prefer.
Which is a way of saying it, you could say it like this.
Comes lo que prefieras.
It just sounds actually a little sweeter.
You eat whatever you prefer, rather than eat whatever you prefer.
But here we're working with the order.
We have a shortcut where we're not using the mood tense.
What is it?
We have comments, you eat, and what do we do to get the order?
Come, good.
So making the order, even though your sentence was very nice and very sweet, comes lo que prefieras, let's make it an order.
Eat whatever you prefer.
Come lo que prefieras.
Very good.
Now make this formal.
Eat whatever you prefer, but speaking formally.
Coma lo che prefiera.
Very good.
So here we have two moot tenses.
We have coma
which is the order and then prefiera giving us whatever from what.
What if you are speaking to more than one person?
Eat whatever you prefer.
Coman lo que prefieran.
Good.
What was to need in Spanish sounding more like to necessitate
Necesitar.
Good.
Whenever you need, whenever you need, how do you say that?
Speaking informally.
Very good.
Cuando necesites.
Whenever you need.
Good.
We said that to choose was like elect.
Elachir elekhir how would you say I choose?
Elechu.
And we had some change happening with that E
Ah yes, elijo.
Elijo, good, elijo.
Elijes.
To follow and also to continue or to carry on, we can use this verb like that, is segir, seguir.
So it's to follow or to continue to carry on.
Segir.
And this behaves like Elihir in that the E will not split, it will just turn into an I when we stress it.
So how do you say I continue or I follow?
Sigo.
And there are some other verbs that come from seguir.
We have conseguir, to get or to manage to.
we have perseguir which means to chase and we will see the same irregularity in them.
The diversion of conseguir, consigo.
Perseguir, persigo.
So like we said before, we can generalize the irregularities in Spanish.
So sigo, I follow, and how about he she it follows or you fumel follow?
Sige.
Sege.
You informal?
Siges.
They or you guys?
Seeken.
But we
Seguimos.
Good.
We're not stressing the E so it escapes from the irregularity.
Seguimos.
Good.
So we could say something like
I'll follow you wherever you go.
So we can say I will follow you or we can just use the present I follow you because the wherever you go is a future context
informally.
Tecigo.
Te sigo.
Good.
Wherever you go.
So this is actually two wherever you go.
Wherever you go to, to wherever you go.
So how would you say to where?
Adonde.
A donde, good.
And you go informally and we want the mood tense, which is irregular.
Yes, very good.
So now we can say the whole sentence.
I'll follow you wherever you go to wherever you go informally.
Te siquo a donde vaya.
Good, very good.
Another
irregular verb in the mood tense is ser.
The base for the mood tense of ser is seya.
Seya, S-E-A.
Seya.
And you will hear the very common expression osea, Osea, literally meaning something like, or it might be
Orsea is just like this uh kind of way to break up speech whilst you're thinking what to say.
Like an uh So sea is the base for the mood tense.
So if you want to say something like I prefer that it be like this, I prefer that it's like this, I prefer for it to be like this.
Of course we say I prefer that it be like this.
What was the word for like this or like that?
A sea.
Good.
So I prefer that it be like this.
I prefer it to be like this.
Prefiero che lo do we use no we don't use low here.
Good.
Prefiero che
Sea así.
Very good.
Prefiero che sia así.
What does sea lo que sea mean?
Whatever will be will be.
Whatever it is, whatever will be will be.
Sea lo que sea.
Whatever will come, be good.